# Final PCBS Project: Coding a Rodrego machine - Yasmine Bennani
## Programming a Rodrego machine according to Dennett's "The seven secrets of computer power revealed"
In his 24th chapter "The seven secrets of computer power revealed", Daniel Dennett aims at demystifying how machines work. He argues against these criticisms that presuppose that machines cannot do what minds can do. If such argument is just saying that machines, today, are not able to imitate human brain's capacities, then they are just stating the obvious, according to Dennett. What is his more challenging claim is to argue that even a very basic machine, what he calls the "Register machine" or the "Rodrego machine" is able to do what more elaborated ones, such as the Turing machine and the Von Neumann machine, can.
## Aim of the project
My aim in the current project is to program a Rodrego machine, as conceived of by Daniel Dennett.
The core principle of the program follows two instructions.
The first one is the instruction "Increment" (e.g. "Inc" in my code) and the second one is the instruction "Decrement" (e.g. "Dec" in my code). The "Inc" instruction simply means "add 1" to the current register (that I imagined to be like a compartment) whereas the "Dec" instruction means "subtract 1" to the current register. Starting from this, many questions emerge: how can one deal with situations where the "Dec" instruction cannot occur, namely what happens when a register is empty? And, how could the program determine which register to execute the instructions over?
## I. Explicating the algorithm
For formulating the Rodrego machine algorithm, I started by imagining the machine's area of execution as a large board with many distinct compartments. Let us say the board contains 10 compartments in each board' line.
